Add OTel Java tutorials (#10678)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/opentelemetry-tutorials/opentelemetry-tutorial-java.mdx

---
title: 'OpenTelemetry tutorials: Instrument a sample Java app'
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Open source telemetry integrations
  - OpenTelemetry

> metaDescription: You can set up OpenTelemetry to monitor a simple Java app.

Reviewer: Might rephrase this. 1) I try to work in New Relic and what it can do for you in the metadescrip. 2) it sounds like you can use OTel to only monitor a simple app, not a complex app; not clear we're talking about an example test app (might have been typo for 'sample')

import opentelemetryMetricsExplorerDimensions from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-crop_metrics-explorer-dimensions.png'

import opentelemetryJvmsPageMain from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-crop_jvms-page-main.png'

import opentelemetryCompareJvmInstances from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_compare-jvm-instances.png'

import opentelemetryJvmColorCodedComparison from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_jvm-color-coded-comparison.png'

import opentelemetryMainLogsPage from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_main-logs-page.png'

import opentelemetryLogsinTerminal from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_logs-in-terminal.png'

import opentelemetryLogDetailsWithTrace from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_log-details-with-trace.png'

import opentelemetryTraceRelatedtoLog from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_trace-related-to-log.png'

import opentelemetryTraceWaterfallFromLog from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_trace-waterfall-from-log.png'

import opentelemetryLogCapturedinTraceSpan from 'images/opentelemetry_screenshot-full_log-captured-in-trace-span.png'

> Try out this Java tutorial to see what the New Relic platform can do with your OTLP data. You can quickly learn how to configure your OpenTelemetry SDK to optimize your observability experience in New Relic. You'll do all this using a demo Spring application that generates the nth number in the Fibonacci sequence.

Reviewer: i might make it a little more clear about the demo app. At first read I thought the Fibonacci functionality had something to do with helping me instrument. Maybe something like: "For this tutorial, you'll be instrumenting a simple demo Spring app that generates Fibonacci numbers."

Author: @zuluecho9 I revised the first two paragraphs: 

Try out these Java tutorials to see what the New Relic platform can do with your OTLP data. We have three tutorials you can choose from, each one using the same demo Spring app that generates the nth number in the Fibonacci sequence. By working through these tutorials, you can learn skills to help you set up your own app with OpenTelemetry and New Relic.

While the three tutorials all use the same demo app, they have different approaches to help you become acquainted with OpenTelemetry and New Relic. Try out the tutorials that are interesting to you:

> You'll find three tracks below to help you get acquainted with New Relic and OpenTelmentry. Try out the tracks that are interesting to you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll find three tracks below to help you get acquainted with New Relic and OpenTelemetry. Try out the tracks that are interesting to you:
```

> * [Run our pre-instrumented program:](#pre-instrum) This is the fastest way to send some demo data to New Relic and see how it is displayed in the UI. This demo app has pre-loaded instrumentation and SDK configurations that follow our [best practices](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-best-practices-overview/) to generate and export metrics, logs, and traces. You can inspect our code and apply relevant sections to your own apps.

Reviewer: I might make it more clear that all these work with the same demo app in different ways. The 'program' in the first one is throwing me off a bit, as it's not clear how that applies to 'app'. Also, the second entry doesn't mention an 'app' or 'program'. In short, wondering if it could be more aligned language-wise to easily communicate: they all use this demo app, but here's the different ways they use them.

Author: @zuluecho9 In addition to changing the intro to clarify that all the tutorials use the same demo app, I changed the run-in headings:

* Run the pre-instrumented demo app
* Monitor the demo app with the OpenTelemetry Java agent
* Set up the demo app manually

> * [Use the OpenTelemetry Java agent:](#java-agent) Instead of using our pre-instrumentated demo app, you can use the OpenTelemetry Java agent to automatically monitor our demo app. You don't need to open the demo code and make any changes&mdash;just install and run the agent alongside the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Use the OpenTelemetry Java agent:](#java-agent) Instead of using our pre-instrumented demo app, you can use the OpenTelemetry Java agent to automatically monitor our demo app. You don't need to open the demo code and make any changes&mdash;just install and run the agent alongside the app.
```

* [Instrument the demo app manually:](#manual-instrum) In this track, you'll roll up your sleeves and tinker with the engine of the car. This is the approach to take if you want to have the most control over what telemetry is reported and want to see details about how it's done. You'll manually insert instrumentation into our demo app to capture telemetry and you'll configure the SDK to send that data to New Relic.

<Callout variant="tip">
You have two choices for exporting data from your application to New Relic via OTLP:
* Directly from your app
* Via an OpenTelemetry collector

> This guide covers the first option. If you wish to export your data via a collector, check out this [documenation](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/collector/opentelemetry-collector-basic/) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide covers the first option. If you wish to export your data via a collector, check out this [documentation](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/collector/opentelemetry-collector-basic/) for details.
```

</Callout>
## Requirements [#requirements]

Before you get started, make sure you have the following:

* A New Relic account: Sign up for a [free account](https://newrelic.com/signup) if you don't already have one.
* Java 17 or higher: If you don't already have this, see [these download options](https://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jsp).

## Run our pre-instrumented program [#pre-instrum]

This is a great option if you want us do the instrumentation so you can quickly see what's it's like to send data to New Relic and view it in our UI.

> 1. Clone the demo app and navigate to the following directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following to clone the demo app and navigate to the `Instrumented` directory.
```

Reviewer: just an idea

    ```
    git clone git@github.com:newrelic/newrelic-opentelemetry-examples.git
    cd newrelic-opentelemetry-examples/getting-started-guides/java/Instrumented
    ```

> 2. In your terminal, set these two environment variables to send data to your New Relic account:

Reviewer: the 'in your terminal' maybe should come in first step, little redundant in second step maybe

Author: @zuluecho9 Good catch!

    ```
    export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS=api-key=INSERT_YOUR_NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY
    export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=https://otlp.nr-data.net:4317

    ```
    * Make sure to use your [ingest license key](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#license-key).

>     * If your account is based in the EU, set the endpoint to: https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * If your New Relic data center region is EU and not US, set the endpoint to: `https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317`
```

3. Set this environment variable to name the demo app:
    ```
    export OTEL_SERVICE_NAME=getting-started-java
    ```
4. In the `java/Instrumented/` directory, run the application:
    ```
    ./gradlew bootRun
    ```

> 5. Open a new terminal and exercise the application from the `Instrumented/java` directory by running this command:

Reviewer: not sure what 'exercise' means here

Author: @zuluecho9 I switched it to this wording that is similar to the other section:

Open a new terminal, go to the `Instrumented/java` directory, and run the following command to generate some traffic from the application:

    ```
    ./load-generator.sh
    ```

    <Callout variant="tip">

>       Alternatively, you can reach the endpoint in the browser at this URL: `http://localhost:8080/fibonacci?n=INSERT_A_VALUE`. Replace `INSERT_A_VALUE` with value from 1 to 90. To generate an error, insert an integer outside the valid range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Alternatively, you can reach the endpoint in the browser at this URL: `http://localhost:8080/fibonacci?n=INSERT_A_VALUE`. Replace `INSERT_A_VALUE` with a value from 1 to 90. To generate an error, insert an integer outside the valid range.
```

    </Callout>

6. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > APM & services**.
7. Click your new entity (service) called `getting-started-java` and explore the UI. For more tips about what to look for in the UI, see [View your data in New Relic](#view-data).
8. When you're finished looking at your data in the UI, shut down the application by pressing CONTROL+C in both terminal sessions.

> ## Use the OpenTelemetry Java agent [#java-agent]

Reviewer: I wonder if maybe we might put 'Tutorial #2:' or something preceding these major headers to better communicate: these are kind of separate tutorials/processes.

Author: @zuluecho9 Great idea! I added "Tutorial X:" in front of each main H2 and also added this to the mini-TOC at the top.

> OpenTelemetry provides an agent that automatically instruments your Java apps and doesn't require you to  modify your source code. The agent is a quick way for you to get started so you can get sample data into New Relic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenTelemetry provides an agent that automatically instruments your Java apps and doesn't require you to modify your source code. The agent is a quick way for you to get started so you can get sample data into New Relic.
```

The auto-instrumentation agent is a JAR file that dynamically injects bytecode to capture telemetry from popular libraries and frameworks. You can also use it to capture data such as inbound requests, outbound HTTP calls, and database calls. It can be attached to any Java 8+ application.

<Callout variant="tip">

>   See the [official documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/) for additional configuration options.

Reviewer: reminder about having descriptive url link text

Author: @zuluecho9 I revised it to this: See the [official Java agent documentation]....

</Callout>

To monitor our demo app with the OpenTelemetry Java agent:

1. Download the [agent JAR file](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/releases/latest/download/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar), which contains the agent and instrumentation libraries. Place it in your preferred directory and note the path, which you will use later.

> 2. If you haven't already done so, complete the following:

Reviewer: might say what this step is doing. it's not clear to me if we expect them to first do the first tutorial and then the second one, or how often that's the case.

Author: @zuluecho9 I changed the intro to this section which might help differentiate it from the previous tutorial:

Here's a different tutorial that also uses the same demo app, but in this case, you'll use the OpenTelemetry Java agent to automatically monitor the demo app. You don't need to modify the Java source code. By using the agent, you can quickly start exporting sample data to New Relic.

        id="exp-bucket-hist"
        title="OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS=api-key=YOUR_LICENSE_KEY"
      >
        Headers: This determines which New Relic account your data will be sent to. Replace `YOUR_LICENSE_KEY` with your [ingest license key](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apis/intro-apis/new-relic-api-keys/#license-key).
      </Collapser>
      <Collapser
        className="freq-link"
        id="temp"
        title="OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=https://otlp.nr-data.net:4317 (For the US)"
      >
        This is the endpoint your application telemetry will be exported to. Export data to New Relic's OTLP endpoint. If you're in the EU, use this endpoint:

        OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4317
      </Collapser>
      <Collapser
        className="freq-link"
        id="service-name"
        title="OTEL_SERVICE_NAME=getting-started-java"
      >
        This is the name that associates your application telemetry with an entity in New Relic. In this tutorial we're calling it `getting-started-java`, but you could call it anything you want.
      </Collapser>
      <Collapser
        className="freq-link"
        id="instance-id"

>         title="OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES=service.instance.id=INSERT_YOUR_OWN_ID_HERE"

Reviewer: think you could remove 'INSERT' as we're not using elsewhere. austin said he thought it was overkill in general

Author: I'm gonna leave this since I don't think it's too verbose. By having a verb in the variable, I'm hoping it catches the reader's attention.

      >
        Replace `INSERT_YOUR_OWN_ID_HERE` with a unique instance id. For example, you could use `1234`. For more details, see OpenTelemetry's [Resource Semantic Conventions](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/resource/semantic_conventions/README.md#service).
      </Collapser>
      <Collapser
        className="freq-link"
        id="length-limit"
        title="OTEL_SPAN_ATTRIBUTE_VALUE_LENGTH_LIMIT=4095"
      >
        Setting a limit on the maximum attribute value length will prevent span data from getting dropped if it exceeds the [New Relic limit](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-best-practices-attributes/).
      </Collapser>
      <Collapser
        className="freq-link"
        id="temp2"
        title="OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_TEMPORALITY_PREFERENCE=DELTA"
      >

>         New Relic supports metrics in delta temporality instead of the default of cumulative.

Reviewer: this was hard for me to parse. esp the 'metrics in delta temporality...' but maybe that's understood by OTel people

Author: @zuluecho9 this is a bit arcane, but I think we can eventually link to some new material we'll be adding about metrics that will also include histogram details.

      </Collapser>
      <Collapser
        className="freq-link"
        id="bucket-hist"
        title="OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_DEFAULT_HISTOGRAM_AGGREGATION=EXPONENTIAL_BUCKET_HISTOGRAM"
      >
        (Recommended) Histogram aggregation: Use exponential histogram instead of default explicit bucket histogram for better data compression.
      </Collapser>
      <Collapser
        className="freq-link"
        id="logs-otlp"
        title="OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER=otlp"
      >
        Enable log export over OTLP. Log export is disabled by default.
      </Collapser>
      <Collapser
        className="freq-link"
        id="gzip"
        title="OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_COMPRESSION=gzip"
      >

>         (Recommended) Setting gzip compression allows you to maximize the amount of data you can send per request. The New Relic maximum allowed payload size is 1MB (10^6 bytes). Gzip compression has good performance and lowers data egress.

Reviewer: Are you okay saying just 'Our' instead of 'The New Relic'? Like 'Our maximum allowed...'

Author: @zuluecho9, I changed this to "Our" in both instances. Thanks!

        id="retry"
        title="OTEL_EXPERIMENTAL_EXPORTER_OTLP_RETRY_ENABLED=true"
      >
        (Recommended) Enable experimental export retry to help cope with the unreliability of the internet.
      </Collapser>
      <Collapser
        className="freq-link"
        id="disabled-keys"
        title="OTEL_EXPERIMENTAL_RESOURCE_DISABLED_KEYS=process.command_line"
      >
        (Recommended) This disables the `process.command_line` resource attribute which often exceeds the New Relic maximum attribute length limit and may contain sensitive information.
      </Collapser>
    </CollapserGroup>

5. Continue in `newrelic-opentelemetry-examples/getting-started-guides/java/Uninstrumented` to launch the agent with the app:

    <Callout variant="important">
      Replace `path/to` with the location of the JAR file you downloaded earlier.
    </Callout>
    ```
    java -javaagent:path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \
          -jar ./build/libs/fibonacci-java.jar
    ```
6. Generate traffic from the application by opening a new terminal in the same directory and running the load generator:
    ```
    ./load-generator.sh
    ```

    <Callout variant="tip">

>       Alternatively, you can reach the endpoint in the browser at this URL: `http://localhost:8080/fibonacci?n=INSERT_A_VALUE`. Replace `INSERT_A_VALUE` with value from 1 to 90. To generate an error, insert an integer outside the valid range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Alternatively, you can reach the endpoint in the browser at this URL: `http://localhost:8080/fibonacci?n=INSERT_A_VALUE`. Replace `INSERT_A_VALUE` with a value from 1 to 90. To generate an error, insert an integer outside the valid range.
```

Author: @zuluecho9 since I'm in the middle of making changes, I just did this in both instances.

    </Callout>

> 7. Now that you've sent some data to New Relic, see our [detailed instructions](#view-data) about how to view the data in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Now that you've sent some data to New Relic, see our [instructions on viewing the data in the UI](#view-data).
```

Author: @zuluecho9 I fixed both separately.

            @Bean
            public Filter webMvcTracingFilter(OpenTelemetry openTelemetry) {
                return SpringWebMvcTelemetry.create(openTelemetry).createServletFilter();
            }
        }
        ```

3. Create a directory called `resources` in `Uninstrumented/src/main`.
4. In this new directory, create a file called `log4j2.xml` with the following contents:
        ```xml
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
        <Configuration status="WARN" packages="io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.log4j.appender.v2_17">
          <Appenders>
            <Console name="ConsoleAppender" target="SYSTEM_OUT" follow="true">
              <PatternLayout pattern="%d{yyyy-mm-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%t] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n"/>
            </Console>
            <OpenTelemetry name="OpenTelemetryAppender" />
          </Appenders>
          <Loggers>
            <Root level="info">
              <AppenderRef ref="OpenTelemetryAppender" />
              <AppenderRef ref="ConsoleAppender" />
            </Root>
          </Loggers>
        </Configuration>
        ```
    <Callout variant="tip">

>       The `packages=...` section of this line allows Log4J to find and configure the `OpenTelemetryAppender`. The source code is [here] (https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/log4j/log4j-appender-2.17/library) and was added as a dependency via `io.opentelemetry.instrumentation:opentelemetry-log4j-appender-2.17`)

Reviewer: note about descriptive url links

Author: @zuluecho9 I revised it to this: The source code is [in the OpenTelemetry repository]....

The OpenTelemetry metrics API defines a number of instruments, which record measurements that are aggregated by the metrics SDK and exported out of process. There are two types of instruments:

* Synchronous: These instruments record measurements as they occur
* Asynchronous: These instruments register a callback, which is invoked only once per collection and do not have associated context

<Callout variant="tip">
  If you have any questions about the status of metric in the OpenTelemetry project, see the [signal statuses](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/#status-and-releases).
</Callout>

Complete the following to add a custom counter:

1. Instantiate a boolean attribute for your custom metric and initialize a metrics instrument.
    <Callout variant="tip">

>       In this case, we are using a [LongCounter](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/manual/#metrics), which records only positive values and is useful for counting things, such as the number of bytes sent over a network. By default, counter measurements are aggregated to montonic (always increasing) sums.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      In this case, we are using a [LongCounter](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/manual/#metrics), which records only positive values and is useful for counting things, such as the number of bytes sent over a network. By default, counter measurements are aggregated to monotonic (always increasing) sums.
```

Author: @zuluecho9 good catch!

                myCounter.add(1, Attributes.of(ATTR_VALID_N, true));
                return last;
            } catch (IllegalArgumentException e) {
                // Record the exception and set the span status
                span.recordException(e).setStatus(StatusCode.ERROR, e.getMessage());
                // Counter to capture invalid inputs and the number of times each occurs
                myCounter.add(1, Attributes.of(ATTR_VALID_N, false));
                throw e;
            } finally {
                // End the span
                span.end();
            }
        }
        ```

### K. Custom log instrumentation [#cust-log]

The status of the logs signal in OpenTelemetry Java is currently [experimental](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/#status-and-releases). Log messages are managed by the root handler in your app, which will send logs of `INFO` level and higher to the console by default. However, you can modify the logger behavior by changing the logging level, including for specific classes, or installing a custom handler or filter.

#### Initialize the logger [#initialize-logger]

> Initialize the logger (as previously stated, this is from the `java.util.logging` library. The Logger is not an OpenTelemetry component, but the application has been configured to send Log4j logs to the OpenTelemetry Log SDK):

Reviewer: parentheticals need some work here

Author: @zuluecho9 I ditched the "Initialize the logger" since it repeats the heading.

```java lineHighlight=4-5
@RestController
public class Controller {

  // Logger (note that this is not an OTel component)
  private static final Logger LOGGER = LogManager.getLogger(Controller.class);

  // Attribute constants
  private static final AttributeKey<Long> ATTR_N = AttributeKey.longKey("fibonacci.n");
  private static final AttributeKey<Long> ATTR_RESULT = AttributeKey.longKey("fibonacci.result");
  private static final AttributeKey<Boolean> ATTR_VALID_N = AttributeKey.booleanKey("fibonacci.valid.n");
. . .
}
```

#### Add custom log messages [#cust-log-messages]

> You can now use the logger to record:

Reviewer: the 'now' throws me a bit here, not sure if it's a new feature or if it's directing me to do that step next.

Author: @zuluecho9 I modified it to this: Once you've initialized the logger, you can use the logger to record:

    span.end();
  }
}
```

### L. Exercise the app to generate some traffic [#exercise-app]

You're ready to send some data to New Relic!

1. Go to the directory `getting-started-guide/java/Uninstrumented` and run this command:
    ```
    ./gradlew bootRun
    ```

    <Callout variant="tip">
      If your terminal displays the Spring ASCII, it means your app has successfully built and is running:

      <img
        alt="Screenshot showing Spring Boot ASCII logo"
        title="Screenshot showing Spring Boot ASCII logo"
        src={opentelemetrySpringBootASCIIDisplay}
      />
    </Callout>
2. Generate traffic from the application by opening a new terminal in the `java` directory and running the load generator:
    ```
    ./load-generator.sh
    ```
    <Callout variant="tip">
      Alternatively, you can reach the endpoint in the browser at this URL: `http://localhost:8080/fibonacci?n=INSERT_A_VALUE`. Replace `INSERT_A_VALUE` with value from 1 to 90. To generate an error, insert an integer outside the valid range.
    </Callout>

3. Now that you've sent some data to New Relic, see our [detailed instructions](#view-data) about how to view the data in the UI.

> ### M. View your data in New Relic [#view-data]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## View your data in New Relic [#view-data]
```

Author: @zuluecho9 I fixed this separately. Good catch!

2. Click your new entity (service) called `getting-started-java`.
3. Check out the details in the sections for each data type.

### Traces [#traces]

Once you've reached the `getting-started-java` entity in New Relic:

1. In the left pane's **Monitor** section, click **Distributed tracing**, and then click the **Fibonacci** trace group.
    <img
      alt="Screenshot showing the main distributed tracing page"
      title="Screenshot showing the main distributed tracing page"
      src={opentelemetryMainDistributedTracingPage}
    />
2. From there, find a trace with an error and click to open it:
    <img
      alt="Screenshot showing an error in distributed tracing"
      title="Screenshot showing an error in distributed tracing"
      src={opentelemetryDistributedTracingError}
    />
3. Once you have the trace open, click `Show in-process spans`, and then click on the resulting span, which will open up a details panel to the right. To see the exception you recorded when a user input is invalid, click on `View span events`:
    <img
      title="Screenshot of in-process spans"
      alt="Screenshot of in-process spans"
      src={opentelemetryInProcessSpans}
    />

> If you completed the manual instrumentation tutorial, here's how the exception you recorded as a span event will look in New Relic:

Author: @zuluecho9 OK, I dropped "event" and will check with the SME.

<img
  title="Screenshot showing an exception as a span event"
  alt="Screenshot showing an exception as a span event"
  src={opentelemetryExceptiononSpanEvent}
/>

To view additional details that you set, such as the span attribute, span name, and status code, click on the **Attributes** tab. This pane is also where you can view additional metadata that is automatically collected by the instrumentation libraries you used in this guide, as well as metadata that is attached by New Relic:

<img
  title="Screenshot of the attributes tab"
  alt="Screenshot of the attributes tab"
  src={opentelemetryAttributesTab}
/>

> For more details about viewing your data, see [OpenTelemetry in the New Relic UI](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/view-your-data/opentelemetry-distributed-tracing-page)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details about viewing your data, see [OpenTelemetry in the New Relic UI](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/view-your-data/opentelemetry-distributed-tracing-page)
```

### Metrics [#metrics]

Once you've reached the `getting-started-java` entity in New Relic, you can see a list of all collected metrics, such as runtime metrics (JVMs) and your custom counter attributes.

#### Metrics explorer [#metrics-explorer]

This is a tool that allows you to see a list of your metrics.

1. In the left pane, select **Data > Metrics explorer**, and then select `fibonacci.invocations`.

    <img
      title="Screenshot showing metrics explorer"
      alt="Screenshot showing metrics explorer"
      src={opentelemetryMetricsExplorerMain}
    />

> 2. Under **Dimensions**, view the attributes you collected along with your custom metric, and then click on **fibonacci.valid.n**.

Reviewer: should this be 'custom metrics'?

Author: @zuluecho9 I think it's singular since they just added a single custom counter.

    <img
      title="Screenshot showing the total number of invocations of fibonacci function"
      alt="Screenshot showing the total number of invocations of fibonacci function"
      src={opentelemetryMetricsExplorerDimensions}
    />

> Learn more about the metrics explorer view [here](docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/view-your-data/opentelemetry-metrics-explorer-page).

Reviewer: reminder about descriptive URL text

Author: @zuluecho9 I fixed this!

#### JVMs [#jvms]

You can also view visualizations of your Java runtime metrics, including throughput, memory usage, and garbage collection time per minute, by heading to the JVM page:

<img
  title="Screenshot of the main JVMs page"
  alt="Screenshot of the main JVMs page"
  src={opentelemetryJvmsPageMain}
/>

You can view the metrics for a single instance, or select multiple instances to compare them:

<img
  title="Screenshot of how to compare JVM instances"
  alt="Screenshot of how to compare JVM instances"
  src={opentelemetryCompareJvmInstances}
/>

Here is what you will see after selecting your instances and clicking **Compare**, where each instance is color coded for easy identification:

<img
  title="Screenshot showing the color-coded JVM comparison"
  alt="Screenshot showing the color-coded JVM comparison"
  src={opentelemetryJvmColorCodedComparison}
/>

> To learn more about the JVMs view, see [here](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/view-your-data/opentelemetry-jvms-page/).

Reviewer: reminder about descriptive url text (i'll stop mentioning that now)

Author: @zuluecho9 thanks for the reminder!

### Logs [#logs]

Here is where to access your logs:

<img
  title="Screenshot showing the main logs page"
  alt="Screenshot showing the main logs page"
  src={opentelemetryMainLogsPage}
/>

You will also see logs in your terminal:

<img
  title="Screenshot showing logs in a terminal"
  alt="Screenshot showing logs in a terminal"
  src={opentelemetryLogsinTerminal}
/>

Back in your logs view, select a log, and you will see a pane open up with the log message and additional attributes that were collected, such as the associated span and trace ids, as well as metadata injected by New Relic:

<img
  title="Screenshot showing log details with trace"
  alt="Screenshot showing log details with trace"
  src={opentelemetryLogDetailsWithTrace}
/>

You can navigate to the correlated distributed trace by clicking this little blue icon:

<img
  title="Screenshot showing how to find correlated trace"
  alt="Screenshot showing how to find correlated trace"
  src={opentelemetryTraceRelatedtoLog}
/>

> This will open a pane that displays the correlated trace, where you can view more details about the trace. For more about this page, see [OpenTelemetry in the UI: Distributed tracing page](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/view-your-data/opentelemetry-distributed-tracing-page/) and [Understand and use the distributed tracing UI](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-ui/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will open a pane that displays the correlated trace, where you can view more details about the trace. For more about this page, see [OpenTelemetry in the UI: Distributed tracing page](/docs/more-integrations/open-source-telemetry-integrations/opentelemetry/view-your-data/opentelemetry-distributed-tracing-page/) and [Understand and use the distributed tracing UI](/docs/distributed-tracing/ui-data/understand-use-distributed-tracing-ui/):
```

Author: @zuluecho9 I did a search and replace for all these absolute paths! Thanks!
